we begin with the war in Gaza where
there's no sign of a letup in the
fighting despite ongoing talks as calls
grow for Israel to scale back its
military operation inside the territory
it has released these images of what
they say is a major Hamas Command Center
in the heart of Gaza City it's alleged
that the network of tunnels was used by
senior Hamas leaders including those
accused of planning the October 7
terrorist
attack gaza's Hamas government says at
least 20 th000 people have now been
killed in Israel's offensive Israeli
Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu has
vowed to continue the operation until
all of Israel's objectives are
met there is no end to scenes like this
in the Gaza Street several Israeli air
strike hitting the southern city of Rafa
survivors rush to barely functioning
hospitals with little hope for safety
anywhere in the
territory all of a sudden the first
rocket landed destroying everything by
the time the second rocket hit we
weren't able to see anything in the
house anymore we barely made it out the
whole house fell down we found a woman
who had just given birth via cesarian
and were able to drag her out with her
baby girl who was choking she was taking
her last breaths there she is over
there the UN estimates that nearly 60%
of all gaza's infrastructure has been
damaged or destroyed and more than 90%
of the population
displaced as the smoke from the latest
bombardment fills the sky above rougher
some of them share their
desperation we came from the
north and they said you should head to
Rafa it's a safe
place they followed us to Rafa and head
us where is it safe where should we go
I wish for a complete ceasefire an end
to the death and suffering it's been 75
days people are still getting killed
there's still people under the rubble I
don't hear from many people
Communications are
out negotiations are taking place that
could lead to a new temporary truce but
many differences still need to be
overcome Qatar based Hamas leader isma
hania traveled to kir on Wednesday for
talks with Egyptian
officials the group which is considered
a terrorist organization by multiple
countries says it only wants a permanent
ceasefire something ruled out by Israel
with prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
saying that is impossible until Hamas is
defeated US President Joe Biden says the
US is negotiating a UN resolution that
quote could be able it might be be able
to agree to this comes as the US holds
talks with key allies to avoid another
veto ahead of a delayed un Security
Council vote the council has so far
failed to overcome us objections to a
resolution regarding a
ceasefire the Arab sponsored resolution
to Halt fighting aims to get desperately
needed Aid into the Gaza Strip the vote
has been delayed twice as diplomats have
been negotiating with the US on the
wording of the resolution the latest
version the text calls for a suspension
of hostilities France the UK and Germany
joined Global calls for a ceasefire over
the weekend despite being uh some of
Israel's closest
allies for more now I'm joined by DW's
special correspondent a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem Israel's primee Minister says
there will be no ceasefire in Gaza until
Hamas is eliminated meanwhile a un
Security Council vote on a potential
pause and fighting has been delayed and
no progress has been reported so far in
talks that Hamas is holding in Egypt do
you see any signs of movement on the
Diplomatic or military
fronts I mean just listening to all of
the various parties that you just listed
involved in all kinds of negotiations
it's not difficult to see why we're at
this uh uh stalemate at this deadlock so
to speak I mean the interests of all of
these parties are still quite far away
from each other Hamas is now saying that
they will not um um you know the
conditions for releasing more hostages
will not be the same as with the
previous uh hostage for prisoner
exchange deal they actually want a
ceasefire to go into effect before they
enter talks into handing over more uh um
hostages to Israeli uh uh um authorities
um and then there there all the various
negotiations that are going on in the U
uh in the UN and in the security Council
in the security Council the United
States which has often been accused of
shielding Israel from um from uh having
to do more to protect civilians in Gaza
by vet by vetoing uh various resolutions
for a possible ceasefire they're
obviously uh you know so far on uh the
side of uh of Israel so trying to
convince the United States to agree to
anything that a country like Egypt which
wants um you know to bypass the
inspection mechanism for Aid which has
to go through Israel uh is is very very
difficult so a lot of competing
interests right now that feel like
they're very very far away from each
other yesterday the US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin called on Israel
to scale back its operation and make its
uh its operation more targeted is there
any indication that Israeli forces are
doing that Aya
no I don't I don't think so I think the
Israeli government has been trying very
hard to show that it is still steadfast
in its um in its war and in its goals
and also in the intensity I mean various
parts of the strip are still coming
under constant bombardment including the
southern part which again initially was
where civilians were supposed to go for
uh safety I think the Israeli government
and particularly the Prime Minister find
themselves in a kind of difficult
situation on the other on the one hand
they cannot show uh uh weakness uh to uh
Hamas so they can't appear to be backing
down from their stated goals to
eliminate uh Hamas and to bring back the
hostages at the same
time huge pressure from Israeli Society
from the families of the hostages that
are still believed to be in the Gaza
Strip is rising
every day and getting more intense um
and so it's it's it's unclear how they
can get out of this dilemma so to speak
because so far the majority of hostages
that have returned back home not in body
bags not as dead bodies were released as
part of a negotiation and people here
are starting to to see that more and
more of course the Israeli government
will say that the negotiation was a
result of the bombardment that the
pressure that they put on Hamas is what
eventually led to that negotiation uh
but it was as a result of a negotiation
nonetheless they weren't rescued by uh
Israeli
military now Israel's military says it
has found a major Hamas Command Center
in Gaza City a which uh it says was used
by hamas's leaders what more can you
tell us about
that what we know about this is of
course what the Israeli uh Defense
Forces uh uh tell us we don't have inde
independent access uh to these uh uh
tunnels or facilities or command centers
to be able to verify uh that information
coming from the IDF but what it has it
says is that it is as you mentioned a
major Hub and that it was used to
transport uh weapons uh uh for Hamas and
support uh uh the group in its
operations a thank you very much that
was DW's a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem